CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to BigWheels

## For users: Reporting bugs and requesting features

To report a new bug or request a new feature, please file a GitHub issue. Please
ensure the bug has not already been reported by searching
[issues](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues) and
[projects](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/projects). If the bug has
not already been reported open a new one
[here](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues/new).

When opening a new issue for a bug, make sure you provide the following:

*   A clear and descriptive title.
    *   We want a title that will make it easy for people to remember what the
        issue is about. Simply using "Segfault in fishtornado" is not helpful
        because there could be (but hopefully aren't) multiple bugs with
        segmentation faults with different causes.
*   A description of the hardware and software combination that the bug occurs:
    *  GPU brand and model.
    *  Driver version.
    *  Target API and API version.
*   A test case that exposes the bug, with the steps and commands to reproduce
    it.
    *   The easier it is for a developer to reproduce the problem, the quicker a
        fix can be found and verified. It will also make it easier for someone
        to possibly realize the bug is related to another issue.

For feature requests, we use
[issues](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues) as well. Please
create a new issue, as with bugs. In the issue provide

*   A description of the problem that needs to be solved.
*   Examples that demonstrate the problem.

## For developers: Contributing a patch

Before we can use your code and/or assets, you must sign the
[Google Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate)
(CLA), which you can do online. The CLA is necessary mainly because you own the
copyright to your changes, even after your contribution becomes part of our
codebase, so we need your permission to use and distribute your code. We also
need to be sure of various other things -- for instance that you'll tell us if
you know that your code infringes on other people's patents. You don't have to
sign the CLA until after you've submitted your code for review and a member has
approved it, but you must do it before we can put your code into our codebase.

See [README.md](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/blob/main/README.md)
for instruction on how to get, build, and test the source. Once you have made
your changes:

*   Ensure the code follows the
    [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
    Running `clang-format -style=file -i [modified-files]` can help.
*   Create a pull request (PR) with your patch.
*   Make sure the PR description clearly identifies the problem, explains the
    solution, and references the issue if applicable.
*   If your patch completely fixes bug 1234, the commit message should say
    `Fixes https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues/1234`. When you do
    this, the issue will be closed automatically when the commit goes into
    master.
*   Watch the continuous builds to make sure they pass.
*   Request a code review.

The reviewer can either approve your PR or request changes. If changes are
requested:

*   Please add new commits to your branch, instead of amending your commit.
    Adding new commits makes it easier for the reviewer to see what has changed
    since the last review.
*   Once you are ready for another round of reviews, add a comment at the
    bottom, such as "Ready for review" or "Please take a look" (or "PTAL"). This
    explicit handoff is useful when responding with multiple small commits.

After the PR has been reviewed it is the job of the reviewer to merge the PR.
Instructions for this are given below.

## For developers: Contributing assets

We welcome any graphic assets you may have developed for benchmarks and/or
projects. Just like with the code, we request that you only contribute assets
that you have either authored or are able to license for BigWheels to use. The
[Google Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate)
(CLA) applies to assets as well as code.

## For maintainers: Reviewing a PR

The formal code reviews are done on GitHub. Reviewers are to look for all of the
usual things:

*   Coding style follows the
    [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html)
*   Identify potential functional problems.
*   Identify code duplication.
*   Ensure the unit tests have enough coverage.
*   Ensure continuous integration (CI) bots run on the PR.

## For maintainers: Merging a PR

We intend to maintain a linear history on the GitHub master branch, and the
build and its tests should pass at each commit in that history. A linear
always-working history is easier to understand and to bisect in case we want to
find which commit introduced a bug.

Once you consider the PR to be ready to merge, use the 'Squash and merge' button
on github's UI.

Commit message:

docs: add more details to the contribution guide
Give some info around review SLO, and how we distribute reviews around.

Signed-off-by: Nathan Gauër <brioche@google.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to BigWheels

## For users: Reporting bugs and requesting features

To report a new bug or request a new feature, please file a GitHub issue. Please
ensure the bug has not already been reported by searching
[issues](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues) and
[projects](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/projects). If the bug has
not already been reported open a new one
[here](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues/new).

When opening a new issue for a bug, make sure you provide the following:

*   A clear and descriptive title.
    *   We want a title that will make it easy for people to remember what the
        issue is about. Simply using "Segfault in fishtornado" is not helpful
        because there could be (but hopefully aren't) multiple bugs with
        segmentation faults with different causes.
*   A description of the hardware and software combination that the bug occurs:
    *  GPU brand and model.
    *  Driver version.
    *  Target API and API version.
*   A test case that exposes the bug, with the steps and commands to reproduce
    it.
    *   The easier it is for a developer to reproduce the problem, the quicker a
        fix can be found and verified. It will also make it easier for someone
        to possibly realize the bug is related to another issue.

For feature requests, we use
[issues](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues) as well. Please
create a new issue, as with bugs. In the issue provide

*   A description of the problem that needs to be solved.
*   Examples that demonstrate the problem.

## For developers: Contributing a patch

Before we can use your code and/or assets, you must sign the
[Google Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate)
(CLA), which you can do online. The CLA is necessary mainly because you own the
copyright to your changes, even after your contribution becomes part of our
codebase, so we need your permission to use and distribute your code. We also
need to be sure of various other things -- for instance that you'll tell us if
you know that your code infringes on other people's patents. You don't have to
sign the CLA until after you've submitted your code for review and a member has
approved it, but you must do it before we can put your code into our codebase.

See [README.md](https://github.com/google/BigWheels/blob/main/README.md)
for instruction on how to get, build, and test the source. Once you have made
your changes:

*   Ensure the code follows the
    [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
    Running `clang-format -style=file -i [modified-files]` can help.
*   Create a pull request (PR) with your patch.
*   1 PR = 1 change. If you want to add 3 features, that's 3 PRs.
*   If you PR brings a non-trivial performance improvement, do provide proof.
*   Make sure the PR description clearly identifies the problem, explains the
    solution, and references the issue if applicable.
*   If your patch completely fixes bug 1234, the commit message should say
    `Fixes https://github.com/google/BigWheels/issues/1234`. When you do
    this, the issue will be closed automatically when the commit goes into
    master.
*   Watch the continuous builds to make sure they pass.
*   Request a code review.

The reviewer can either approve your PR or request changes. If changes are
requested:

*   Please add new commits to your branch, instead of amending your commit.
    Adding new commits makes it easier for the reviewer to see what has changed
    since the last review.
*   Once you are ready for another round of reviews, add a comment at the
    bottom, such as "Ready for review" or "Please take a look" (or "PTAL"). This
    explicit handoff is useful when responding with multiple small commits.

After the PR has been reviewed it is the job of the reviewer to merge the PR.
Instructions for this are given below.

### How we review

We try to review PRs at least once per 24h window.
If your PR remains untouched for more than 24h, please ping us.
Anything will do "PTAL", "up".
Sometimes, we are on holiday, but you cannot guess, so in doubt, ping us 😊.

Maintainers don't own specific parts of the project. We try to use our best
judgment when doing reviews.
For small PRs (trivial fix, or additions), we consider 1 reviewer is enough,
and can merge the PR directly after the review.

For larger PRs and non-trivial changes, 2 pair of eyes are always good.

Between maintainers, we try to follow the following convention:
 - if a maintainer approves a PR, the others are free to merge if they
approve themselves.
 - if a maintainer requests changes without approval, they want to look at
it again once the changes are in.

## For developers: Contributing assets

We welcome any graphic assets you may have developed for benchmarks and/or
projects. Just like with the code, we request that you only contribute assets
that you have either authored or are able to license for BigWheels to use. The
[Google Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate)
(CLA) applies to assets as well as code.

## For maintainers: Reviewing a PR

The formal code reviews are done on GitHub. Reviewers are to look for all of the
usual things:

*   Coding style follows the
    [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html)
*   Identify potential functional problems.
*   Identify code duplication.
*   Ensure the unit tests have enough coverage.
*   Ensure continuous integration (CI) bots run on the PR.

## For maintainers: Merging a PR

We intend to maintain a linear history on the GitHub master branch, and the
build and its tests should pass at each commit in that history. A linear
always-working history is easier to understand and to bisect in case we want to
find which commit introduced a bug.

Once you consider the PR to be ready to merge, use the 'Squash and merge' button
on github's UI.
